# Audience1st: Ticket Sales, Subscriber/Patron Management, Donation Tracking

Audience1st integrates your own ticket sales, third-party ticket sales
(such as Theatre Bay Area and Golstar), box office reports,
calendar and ticket availability information (which can be easily
exported to your own web site), attendance statistics, donor management
and followup, online donations, and support for email marketing
campaigns, all in one Web-based system. 

# Target Users

Audience1st was developed specifically for the needs of a nonprofit
community theater: 

* Extensive functions for donor tracking and email campaigns integrated tightly with ticket sales and box office operations

* Easy to train volunteers: the box office agent's user interface
closely follows the patron user interface, so your patrons can easily
become volunteer box office agents 

* Easy to segment volunteers: a separate, one-screen, streamlined user
interface for walk-up sales (at the box office) makes it easy to train
volunteers to sell tickets at showtime without learning other
administrative features required for telephone sales 

* High degree of automation around ticket sales, phone-based information
and sales, and box office management, to minimize human resources needed
on your end 

* Every action is audited, making it easy to figure out who did what and
when (preventing customer complaints from degenerating into "he said/she
said”)  

# Feature Highlights

For more complete descriptions and operating instructions, see the wiki.

## Flexible Ticketing

* Payments are handled via integration with [Stripe](http://stripe.com).

* Set up multiple ticket types and price points for each
production. Per-performance overrides are possible if you want to offer
special tickets, promotions, etc. for selected performances only. 

* Set up, redeem, and track "promo codes" that reveal special prices.

* Any type of ticket can be capacity-controlled and have start sales/end
sales dates that override the defaults for the production (allowing,
e.g., a "preferred" group of patrons to have early access to ticket
sales, or allowing a time-limited promotional ticket price). 
Holdbacks (such as for group sales, TBA Free Night of Theatre, etc.)
are easy to do on a per-performance basis.  

* All actions are audited so you can tell who entered what transaction,
in case a customer claims a discrepancy. 

* Comps can be added to customer accounts by boxoffice staff. Different
types of comps (professional, performer, media, etc.) can be tracked
separately and capacity-controlled per performance. 

## Customer-Facing Interface

* Customers can self-purchase online with a credit card or you can have
orders entered by your phone staff on behalf of a customer, with email
confirmations automatically generated.

* Comments can be added to any reservation by customer or staff, at time
of purchase or after purchase (e.g. special seating needs, guest of
honor, etc.) 

## Back Office

* The phone staff see the same user interface as patrons, so it’s easy
for a patron to become a phone staff volunteer.  

* A separate, one-screen, streamlined user interface for walk-up sales
(at the box office) makes it easy to train volunteers to do limited
box-office-only work selling tickets at showtime 

* Walk-up sales can be cash, check, or credit card (if you have a
credit-card processing machine); includes support for MagTek USB credit
card swipes

## Sell Subscriptions, Bundles & Other Products

* Virtually any kind of subscription is possible, including per-show,
restricted to specific performances only (e.g. "Matinee Series"), flex
pass (vouchers valid for any performance), individual series, or one of
everything.  

* Subscribers are easily called out in sales reports, will-call lists,
etc. so you can single them out for special treatment if you
wish. Multiple types of subscription seasons are possible and you can
distinguish whether a particular series "qualifies" the patron for
Subscriber VIP treatment or not. 


* Subscribers can make and cancel their own reservations online with no
fee (at your discretion) and no box office intervention. 

* You can create tickets for special events that are either available to
subscribers only, or discounted for subscribers; for example,
subscriber-only VIP access to a special event, subscribers getting
earlier access to certain tickets than nonsubscirbers, or "guest of
subscriber" discount tickets for subscribers to bring friends to the
show. 

* Non-subscriber "bundles" let you offer tickets such as "family packs"
where a bundle of tickets is purchased for a single price.  

* Support for collecting revenue for other products, such as tuition for
courses and other special events. Each product offered for sale can be
distinguished as to whether it requires separate fulfillment,
e.g. mailing an item to the customer, vs. "will-call" fulfillment
only. Reports can be run to indicate which orders still have fulfillment
outstanding. 

* Sell "Nonticket products" (preferred seating upgrade, free glass of
wine, ticket exchange fee, etc.) with separate accounting codes, either
by boxoffice only or customer self-purchase. 


* Collect revenue for other products, such as camps, classes, 
or special events. Each product offered for sale can be distinguished
as to whether it requires separate fulfillment, e.g. mailing an item to
the customer, vs. "will-call" fulfillment only. Reports can be run to
indicate which orders still have fulfillment outstanding. 

## Email Campaign Integration

* Flexible reporting can be used to select any subset of customers
(e.g., "all customers who saw show X" or "all customers who have made at
least 3 purchases in the past year"). 

* Reports can be exported to Mailchimp for mail campaigns.

* Customers can opt out of email, paper mailings, or both.

## Donor & Prospect Management

* Customers can donate online at time of purchase; donations received by
mail or in person can also be recorded by staff.  Donations are tracked
and tied to customer record along with ticket purchases, giving you a
comprehensive view of patron behavior over time. 

* Tracking of whether acknowledgment letter has been sent to patron.

* Donation reporting/search allows exporting of selected donors to Excel
for further analysis or mail-merge. 

* Prospects for more aggressive giving can be linked to additional
contact information (employer, relationship to theater, etc.) and to
individual visit reports, to track relationships with individual patrons
over time. 

## Front of House

* Front of house "dashboard" displays the number of seats sold for
tonight's show, number remaining, number held back, and number of
advance purchasers who have checked in.  When a will-call patron
arrives, just check off their name and the totals are updated. 

* Walk-up sales can be cash, check, or credit card.  If you have an
Internet connection at the box office, you don't need any separate
equipment to do fast credit card purchases.  With a MagTek credit card
swipe, you can process them even faster by not having to type
information off the credit card manually.   (Requires 
available USB port.)  Every walkup sale updates the "capacity remaining"
dashboard. 

* Close-of-boxoffice report lets you easily reconcile total walkup sales
against box office cash inventory. 

## Audience Development & Stewardship

*   Generate lists of customers based on almost any criterion:
performances seen (or not seen), type of ticket used, quantity or amount
of recent donations, patrons who subscribed in previous year(s) but
haven't renewed recently, etc. 

* Export lists to Excel for printing mailing labels or doing mail-merge,
or for email campaigns.  

* Export lists directly to MailChimp, so with a single click, you can
target a specific subset of your patrons for a promotional email and
export just that list to to your email service provider. 

*  Create your own "labels" or tags to refer to special categories of
customers (VIPs, Press, Potential Volunteer, etc.) and generate reports
based on the labels. 

* Separate tracking of email opt-out vs. US Mail opt-out, so you can
generate separate lists.  If you use an external email list management
service like MailChimp or ConstantContact, new opt-ins and opt-outs are
automatically propagated in both directions. 

* Donor management lets you connect donations and ticket purchases,
setup different donation campaigns with their own landing pages and
separate QuickBooks account codes, and run reports on donors based on
almost any donation critera.  You can also track in-kind donations. 

* Automatic tracking of which donors you still need to send letters to.
When you send a letter, one click on the donor's name records the time,
date and who sent the letter.  Anyone can run a report on which
thank-you letters are outstanding.

* Prospects for more aggressive giving can be linked to additional
contact information (employer, relationship to theater, etc.) and to
individual visit reports, to track relationships with individual patrons
over time and send emails to staff reminding them of upcoming follow-up
contacts with prospects. 

## Integration With Your Own Website

* RSS feed of ticket availability, showing up-to-the-minute availability
information, can be integrated into your website. 

# Features Not Supported At This Time

* No reserved seating: currently Audience1st handles only
general-seating venues. This will change in the future. 

* No printing on ticket stock: Audience1st emphasizes an electronic
ticketing/will-call scenario. Coming soon, customers or the box office
will be able to self-print tickets on a standard printer. However,
specialized ticket printing hardware is not supported at this time. 

